Before we begin painting our shadows like we can see here on our image let's work a bit on adjusting
the color of our flour sack so to do that.
I think I'll switch at least temporarily from a movie image view to a note Ed. view here and what we
can do is add an R G B curves node to our image texture here so what I'll do is press a shift a and
then I'll bring in under Color an R G B curves node and I'll drop that right here.
Now with this I can click and add a point here and then I can take that point on the graph and move
it around a bit and change the color of our set.
Now I need to switch to the rendered viewport shading view before I can see any change.
But now if I move this around you can see I can just adjust these a bit and get a little bit different
color.
So with that now I can think about creating a new image texture to paint on for our shadows and highlights.
I'll change back to the textured viewport shading and I'm going to need my U-V image editor back so
I'll hit the in key to close this panel and I'm going to grab this and drag it on over so I can have
another U-V editor here in this panel.
Go ahead and create a new image and I'll call this flour sack shade.
So I know what that is and I'll click OK to create that image and then we have our black image just
like we did before.
I'll go ahead and save this to my hard drive by clicking on image and going to save as image.
Now I'll switch to paint mode.
It's already there.
That's good and I'll make sure that draw texture paint UVA's is off.
Now what let's do is bring in this new image into our code editor so I'll press shift A and bring in
a texture node image texture.
And in this I will pull this menu down and choose that flower section and now to combine these two images
I'll press shift A and under Color I'll choose a mix R G B.
And from here we can go ahead and mix these two textures.
So I'll take this down to here.
And I'll grab this and bring it over here.
Now I'll feed that back into the diffused Shater.
I'll just refresh the view by switching over to object mode and then back to texture paint.
And now you can see our black image for our flour sack shade.
Let me switch back to my flour sack over here so we can see that reference image.
Now I'll remove the texture from the brush.
And let's go back to this fill color here.
Maybe I'll take it up a little bit lighter.
Change to my Phil brush and click in here and that fills that whole thing.
Now if we switch over to our rendered viewport shading we can maybe get a sense of how this is going
to look.
So if I take this all the way over we can get a sense that there is our original flour sack image with
the R.G. B curves.
If I click and drag all the way over.
Notice that it's black.
It should be that full color here.
Well it should be but the problem is is once again we haven't saved this image to the hard drive.
So if I go ahead and click save image here and now drag the slider back and forth to refresh the image
we can see now that flour sack shaid image in our 3-D view.
I'll go ahead and bring this down just a bit so we can see that other image in there.
Maybe I'll bring this down to a point too for now so we can see it.
You can see the combination of these two images.
Now we can change the way we are mixing these from nicks to multiply.
We can try screen or Dodge.
We can try a lot of different things here if we want but for now I'll just come back to mix and what
I'm going to do is switch over from the mouse to a pen and tablet.
I have a way come into this pen and tablet and I'll switch to that to be able to do a little painting
here from our image.
I'll switch back to our textured viewport shading and now I can see just that shade image.
I'll come over here to my reference image and making sure that we are in in fact using the paint mode.
I'll hover over here press the ESC key and find a nice darker color to use for our shadows.
Maybe like this.
I'll select that from the palette.
I'll switch my brush from Phil to texture draw all reduce the size of my brush and notice now that I've
changed my brush.
I need to re select that color.
I'll bring the strength down quite a bit.
I'll change my blend mode to mix and then I'll come in and just begin to do a little bit of painting
here trying to replicate what we're seeing in the reference image.
So it looks like there's quite a bit of dark down here.
I can go ahead and paint this down here a bit.
And it looks like there's some shadow coming through here so I'll paint some of this and maybe some
up here as well.
I'll turn on the tablet.
Pressure sensitivity for the radius of the brush so I can get a little bit of differentiation within
the stroke as I push down on the brush something like that perhaps be one up here let's fill in up in
here as if this is a little bit darker in here.
Yes.
And around the base of the tied up area here let's get some of that now I'll come in and some of the
lighter highlights as well I'll go back to that fill color and make it a little bit brighter.
Let's go in and add some of that up just on top of each of these
and then maybe I'll also do one a little bit lighter not quite as strong shift F to reduce the strength
just a bit and then maybe put another line of the dark just on top of here to give a sense that that's
kind of bulging out.
All right so now that we have that done let's go ahead and save our image.
Now if we come back to our rendered view we can see some of that light and dark in our image here.
We can turn the mix up or down.
We can change the way we mix.
Maybe we try the Dodge blend mode I'll maybe take this up to point to and then we can maybe adjust the
B curves here as well.
So you can see there are quite a few options when we combine our texture painting with our note editor
as well as our brush texture and our stencil when we're texturing objects in Blender.
So in the next video let's take a look at adding a bit of bump displacement using our image textures
in the note editor.